---
layout: post
title: "Day 06: Pointers, Strings, and Chars! Oh my!"
date: 2017-07-04
categories: piscine
---
## Day 06 (Day 9)
Today I spent all day working on Day 05. I only finished about 12 exercises from Day 05 the previous day, so I had quite a bit to do. Also I started the day late, only arriving to the lab at 2:00pm after sleeping in, doing laundry, writing a post, doing some python, and eating lunch. Then I attacked the problems.

Some of the more interesting problems for today were near the end. Specifically the last two I finised, ft_putnbr_base and ft_atoi_base. These two are the opposites of each other. In the first one, ft_putnbr_base, I had to design a function that takes an input int, and an new base, like "01" for base two, or "0123456789ABCDEF" for base 16, or even "?)$#(" for base 5, and display the given int in the given base with the given string to represent the different digits. The second function, ft_atoi_base, takes a string in a given base and turns it back into an int. So called ft_putnbr on the output of ft_atoi_base would get the output of running ft_atoi_base of anything from ft_putnbr. I was work right up to the deadline, which is at 11:42pm, and submitted my ex21 solution for ft_atoi_base with mere minutes to spare.

Dinner was quite the adventure. I missed the cantina's dinner time by ~15 minutes, so I decided to skateboard to the nearby town with shop/food area. There was a chipotle there. But it, and many other restaurants were closed for the Fourth of July, so I ended up going to a gas station to get a burrito. Happy Fourth of July! 